How Much Should I Spend on a Car?
A good rule is to spend no more than 10% to 15% of your monthly income on a car (assuming a four-year loan); you can use our affordability calculator to determine your budget. If you won’t be paying cash, it’s important to shop for financing. Start with your local bank or credit union and compare those offers with the dealership’s financing offer; check out our loan prequalification tool. Lastly, don’t forget that vehicle incentives can play a big role in the final price of a car — particularly new cars, which tend to have the biggest discounts.

More Budget and Financing Information From Cars.com:

What’s the Best Time of Year to Buy a Car?
How to Get a Car Loan
How to Use New-Car Incentives, Rebates and Finance Deals
What’s the Average Car Payment?
What Is an APR?
What Does MSRP Mean?
What Makes Up a Destination Charge?
Is Employee Discount Pricing Really a Deal?
More Finance Advice
Should I Buy a New Car?
Once you’ve figured out your budget, it’s time to determine which fits best: a new or used car. Both have pros and cons; the upsides of a new car include peace-of-mind perks such as warranties, roadside assistance and covered maintenance. There’s also that new-car smell. However, downsides exist, too, including high upfront costs and depreciation during ownership. Continue reading to help make your decision.

More New-Car Information From Cars.com:

Should I Buy a New or Used Car?
Research All-New and Redesigned Vehicles
Can I Order a Car From the Factory?
What’s on a Car’s Window Sticker?
How Long Does It Take to Order a Car?
How to Negotiate With a Car Dealer
Sticker Shock: How Much More Than the Starting Price Will That Car Really Cost You?
Making Sense of New-Car Warranties
Should I Buy a Used Car?
If a used car checks more of your boxes, it’s important to know what you’re in for. While used cars typically come with lower upfront costs, they can sometimes be expensive in terms of maintenance costs, especially higher mileage vehicles. And where should you buy a used car? A dealership is one option; check out Cars.com’s dealership ratings before you head out. Private sellers could be another good source, and oftentimes, they offer lower prices. Check out our used-car coverage below for more information.

More Used-Car Information From Cars.com:

Is Now a Good Time to Buy a Used Car?
Questions to Ask a Car Seller
How Do I Find Out if a Car Is Still Under Warranty?
Making Sense of Used Car Warranties
What Should a Used-Car Inspection Include?
How to Buy a Beater: 5 Tips for Bargain-Basement Used-Car Shoppers
What Is a Fleet Vehicle, and Should I Buy One?
How to Avoid Used-Car Scams
What to Know Before Buying a Used Electric Car
Benefits of Buying a Used Car
More Used-Car Advice
Should I Get a CPO Car?
Another option is a certified pre-owned car, which is often less expensive than a new car but more expensive than a regular used car. CPO cars often offer some peace-of-mind extras, such as a short warranty and multipoint inspection. Read on to see if a CPO vehicle is right for you.

More CPO-Car Information From Cars.com:

Can a CPO Car Help You Get a Better Auto Loan Rate?
Should I Buy a New, Used or Certified Pre-Owned Car?
Should You Buy a CPO Electric Car?
What Are the Best Perks of Buying a CPO Car?
Can You Negotiate Price on a Certified Pre-Owned Car?
Are Certified Pre-Owned Cars Worth It?
How to Compare CPO Programs
Factory CPO Programs Versus Other ‘Certified’ Vehicles
More CPO-Car Advice

Should I Lease a Car?
If you’ve decided on a new car instead of a used one, is leasing it a good idea? The pros include typically lower monthly payments as well as the ability to swap for a new car every couple of years. But consider the cons, including mileage limits and penalties as well as paying for a car you don’t own — unless you buy out the lease.. Check out the ins and outs of leasing below:

More Lease Information From Cars.com:

First-Time Buyers: Should I Lease My Car?
What Does It Mean to Lease a Car?
How Much Does It Cost to Lease a Car?
How to Negotiate a Car Lease
What is Residual Value?
How Do I Calculate if a Lease Is a Good Deal?
How Does Leasing a Car Work?
Glossary of Car Leasing Terms
How to Get Out of a Car Lease
Can I Extend My Auto Lease?
Can You Lease a Used Car?
Can You Lease a Car With Bad Credit?
Is Now the Time to Buy Out Your Car Lease?
How to Get Out of a Car Lease
Do the Math: Car Subscriptions as Lease Alternative Don’t Add Up
What Are Car Subscription Services?
Which Brands Offer Car Subscription Services?
More Leasing Advice
Which Car Should I Buy?
You’ve decided to buy a car, but what type will meet your needs best? That depends on a lot of factors. Do you need space for a family and their gear? Do you need something that emphasizes utility and towing? Or maybe you’re interested in alternative fuels? Dive into our Car Seat Checks to see how various vehicles handle car seats. You can also dig into the ins and outs of owning a pickup truck or an electric vehicle, or see how we rank different models in a class with our multi-car comparisons. Check out more vehicle research resources below.

More Car Research Information From Cars.com:

Research All-New and Redesigned Vehicles
Expert New-Car Reviews
Expert New-Car Videos
com’s New Car Awards
These 10 SUVs Have the Highest Towing Capacity
2024 Cars.com Affordability Report: Best Value New Cars
Should You Buy a Hail-Damaged Car?
When Do New Cars Come Out?
Should You Buy an Off-Lease Car?
How Do I Find a Car?
With millions of new- and used-car listings from dealers across the country, Cars.com’s vast vehicle inventory is a powerful tool in your vehicle search. Quickly find the vehicle you want by filtering by zip code, body style, price, features, dealer ratings and many more.

More Car-Shopping Information From Cars.com:

Advanced Search: Find and Filter Cars for Sale
Shop for CPO Vehicles
Shop for SUVs
Shop for Sedans
How Do You Buy a Car Out of State?
Should I Buy From a Dealership or Private Seller?
You’ve zeroed in on the vehicle you want, but where should you buy it — a dealership or a private seller? With a dealership, the process is more transparent and could come with extras like an additional warranty, especially in the case of a used car. Check out Cars.com’s dealership and salesperson ratings to see what shoppers think of a dealership you’re considering. However, you’ll likely pay more at a dealership than you would if you made your purchase from a private seller. Pitfalls exist here, too, including online scams and unreliable sellers, to name a few.

More Car-Buying Information From Cars.com:

Questions to Ask a Car Seller
How to Avoid Used-Car Scams
Can Regular Consumers Buy a Car at Auction? It Depends
What Does No-Haggle Price Mean?
What Are Dealer Options and Are They Worth It?
Are Extended Car Warranties Worth It?
What Is Gap Insurance?
What Should I Do When at the Dealership?
You’re probably eager to see the car with a visit to the dealership, but there’s still one more thing to do: request, via email, out-the-door price quotes for the cars you’re considering. This gives you an accurate picture of the total cost of the car and lets you compare prices from different dealers, which can be useful when negotiating. Read on for more dealership prep and tips.

More Dealership Information From Cars.com:

How to Test Drive Your Car
What Should a Used Car Inspection Include?
What Is a Pre-Purchase Car Inspection?
How to Spend the Least Amount of Time at a Dealership
Can I Order a Car From the Factory?
What’s on a Car’s Window Sticker?
How Do I Find Out if a Car Is Still Under Warranty?

What Should I Do About My Current Car?
It’s important not to separate the purchase of a new car from a potential trade-in or sale of your old one. Combining them makes it easier for a dealer to manipulate the numbers by, for instance, giving you a lower price on your new car but less for your trade-in. If you’re asked at the dealership whether you have a trade-in, leave yourself options regarding your plan for your current car — whether that’s trading it in or selling it to a private party or another dealership.

However, for some shoppers, the speed and convenience of the trade-in process may be enough to offset getting less money for the car than if they’d sold it themselves. Use Cars.com’s Instant Offer tool to get an exact, no-obligation cash offer on your car from a local dealer and read on for more tips.

More Selling and Trade-in Information From Cars.com:

How Does Selling to a Dealer Work?
How Does Trading in a Car Work?
How Do I Know if a Trade-in Offer is Reasonable?
Selling to a Dealer: Taxes and Other Considerations
How to Get the Best Offer for Your Trade-In
Can You Trade in or Sell a Car With a Loan?
How Do I Trade in a Car That Has Negative Equity?
What Does a Car Title Look Like?
Is Your Trade-in a CPO Candidate?
More Selling and Trade-in Advice
How to Complete the Car Purchase
You’ve agreed upon a vehicle price, so you’re done. Not so fast — there’s one more hurdle before you can drive away in your new car. If your deal will be finalized in the traditional finance and insurance office, it’s important to understand what’ll likely take place besides reviewing the taxes, fees and forms needed to complete the sale.

The F&I office is the last chance for a dealership to sell you additional products like insurance coverage, protection plans and extended warranties. There’s no requirement you buy any of these products. If you’re not interested, be prepared to politely decline — possibly more than once. Read on for more information about what to expect at the end of a car purchase.